A 46-year-old, institutionalised man with schizophrenia was diagnosed with oropharyngeal carcinoma two months prior to the acute critical care admission. Magnetic resonance imaging showed an extensive tumour (5 cm × 3 cm × 6 cm) centred on the right oropharynx extending to the soft palate, right nasopharynx, right vallecula and right extrinsic muscles of the tongue . There was also bilateral lymphadenopathy. He had received three doses of radiotherapy for the oropharyngeal carcinoma, and the last dose was given on the day of his presenting complaint at the critical care unit. He was referred from the nursing home to the hospital's emergency department with per oral bleeding, wherein excess 1 L of blood was suctioned from the patient's oral cavity. His haemoglobin level at admission was 7.5 g/dL. Nasoendoscopy by the otolaryngologist revealed continual oozing from the soft palate tumour and pooling of blood in the hypopharynx. The patient was transferred to the critical care unit for monitoring with plans for angioembolisation of the bleeding tumour. On arrival to the critical care unit at 3 am, he was noted to have severe trismus, with a mouth opening of 1.5 cm. The patient was agitated, hypotensive and tachycardic, with a blood pressure of 80/61 mmHg, heart rate of 135 bpm and oxygen saturation of 76% on oximetry. Blood transfusion was in progress. Within minutes, the patient became unresponsive and pulseless. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation commenced; however, mask ventilation was difficult and oxygen saturation failed to improve above 70% despite administration of 100% oxygen. The decision was made to insert a Size 3 laryngeal mask airway Supreme TM  with concurrent chest compression and intravenous administration of epinephrine 1 mg. Ventilation and oxygenation improved and there was return of spontaneous circulation. The otolaryngologist promptly performed anABSTRACT We herein report a witnessed cardiopulmonary collapse of a patient with difficult mask ventilation and nearimpossible laryngoscopy-cum-intubation in the critical care unit. The airway was successfully rescued with a laryngeal mask airway Supreme TM , followed by an open, crash tracheostomy by the otolaryngologist. ). Bleeding from the soft palate tumour resolved with administration of fresh frozen plasma and tranexamic acid without the need for angioembolisation. Subsequently, the patient was weaned from sedation and woke up the following day. He tolerated the tracheostomy mask and was discharged from the critical care unit by Day 2 after critical care unit admission. Consent was obtained from the family for the anonymous photograph of the patient.
